Product Knowledge Core (PKC) — Builder’s Description
What PKC actually is (clear, non-fluffy definition)

PKC is the single authority layer of the system.

It is responsible for:

deciding what is allowed to become “truth”

deciding where that truth lives

ensuring agents never corrupt or confuse knowledge

providing a stable memory interface to all agents

PKC is not an LLM.
PKC is not just a database.
PKC is a governed memory system.

If every other agent disappears, PKC + PKB still preserve the product understanding.

PKC = 3 tightly coupled things

When you build PKC, you are building all three, not one.

1️⃣ PKB (Product Knowledge Base)

A structured, persistent data store (JSON / DB) that holds:

facts (truth)

extensions (B2B/B2C truth)

derived insights (LLM synthesis)

gaps (stateful diagnostics)

PKB never thinks. It only stores.

2️⃣ Schema + Rules Engine

A deterministic layer that defines:

what fields exist

which fields are required (based on product type)

what structure is allowed

what source evidence is mandatory

what can overwrite what

This is what stops the system from turning into a blob of text.

3️⃣ PKC Curator (the gatekeeper)

A non-negotiable gate that every agent must pass through to:

write to PKB

update PKB

overwrite PKB

No agent writes to PKB directly.
Ever.

The core principle PKC enforces (memorize this)

Agents may propose.
PKC decides.
PKB remembers.

What PKC receives (inputs)

PKC only accepts proposed updates, never raw conversation.

A proposed update always has this shape conceptually:

{
  target_section: "facts | extensions.b2b | derived_insights | gaps",
  field_path: "facts.pricing.range_notes",
  value: "...",
  sources: [...],
  metadata: {
    proposed_by: "extractor | interviewer | synthesizer | gap_identifier",
    timestamp: ...
  }
}


Different agents propose different kinds of updates:

Agent	What it proposes
Information Extractor	proposed fact updates
Product Interviewer	proposed fact updates (founder source)
Product Synthesizer	proposed derived_insights
Gap Identifier	proposed gaps list
Explainer	❌ never writes
What PKC does with every proposed update (step by step)

This is the exact logic PKC must implement.

Step 1: Structural validation (hard stop)

PKC checks:

Is the target_section valid?

Does the field_path exist in schema?

Is the value type correct (string, list, object)?

Is this section writable by this agent?

If any fail → reject.

Step 2: Source validation (hard stop for facts)

If update is targeting:

facts or extensions

Then PKC enforces:

at least one source exists

source_type ∈ {doc, url, founder}

source_ref is present

No source → no truth.

Derived insights and gaps do not require sources.

Step 3: Authority check (soft but critical)

PKC checks:

Is this a fact overwrite?

Does an existing fact already exist at this path?

If yes:

Compare old value vs new value

If conflicting → mark as needs_clarification

Do NOT silently overwrite

This prevents:

“Extractor said pricing is $99, interviewer later says $49, system blindly overwrites.”

Step 4: Section-specific routing

PKC decides where this update lives:

Fact updates → facts or extensions

Synthesizer output → derived_insights

Gap output → gaps.current (overwrite previous gaps)

Agents do not choose this themselves.

Step 5: Write + version

PKC:

writes accepted update to PKB

updates timestamps

optionally stores previous version (even shallow versioning is enough for V0)

What PKC never does (important)

PKC:

❌ does not summarize

❌ does not reason about the product

❌ does not generate text

❌ does not talk to the user

❌ does not infer missing info

That is agent work, not PKC work.

How PKC interacts with each agent
With Information Extractor

Receives: structured proposed facts

Enforces: schema + sources

Stores: accepted facts

With Product Synthesizer

Receives: derived understanding

Enforces: “derived only” rule

Stores: under derived_insights

Synthesizer can NEVER touch facts.

With Gap Identifier

Receives: gap list + priorities

Stores: replaces gaps.current

Gaps are always treated as state, not truth.

With Product Interviewer

Receives: structured fact updates parsed from human answers

Enforces: same rules as extractor

Stores: facts with source_type = founder

With Product Explainer

PKC does nothing.

Explainer is read-only.

Why PKC exists as a concept (this is the deep reason)

Without PKC:

Every agent becomes half-database, half-LLM

Bugs become invisible

Knowledge becomes inconsistent

You cannot debug “why did the system say this?”

With PKC:

You can inspect what is known

You can inspect why it is known

You can trace where each fact came from

You can safely add more agents later (sales, demo, objections)

PKC is what turns a clever prototype into a system.

PKC in one sentence (the one you should remember)

PKC is the governed memory layer that decides what the system knows, why it knows it, and prevents agents from lying to each other.

When you build it, build it in this order

PKB JSON structure

Schema validation rules

PKC curator function (accept / reject / store)

Enforce “no agent writes directly to PKB”

Add logging (“why was this rejected?”)

Once PKC is solid, every other agent becomes easy.